Who are you?
What do you want?
Hello. sir.
I'm DI Scanlon. This is DS Stone.
We'd like to see some
identification. please.
This is my mother's house.
There's nothing here.
Liar.
Get back!
-Is anyone else in the house?
-Just my mother.
You do not have to say anything.
but it may harm your defence if you
do not mention when questioned...
Alan?
Where's Alan?
Carol?
Carol Taft?
DS Stone?
-Sir.
-Well done.
Hold a briefing for
the murder of a drug addict.
you can't pay them to turn up.
Mention the word serial killer
and suddenly
you need extra chairs.
Multiple murderer.
You've done plenty of these before?
No. Never.
Follow my lead and remember.
it's a good news day.
And Alan Harvey
would undoubtedly
have killed more
than three women
if it wasn't for some exemplary
police work.
Particularly from DS Stone here.
who will talk you through the arrest.
Carol Taft should be alive.
Can you expand
on that. sir?
What DS Stone means
is despite this success.
it's no time for a celebration.
What I mean is if we had treated
each woman as part of a pattern.
rather than separate
missing persons cases.
we would have found Alan Harvey
sooner.
And Carol Taft would still be alive.
And we failed.
I failed.
So...
you believe Homicide Command
should be workingmore
closely with Missing Persons.
Yes.
Yes. most people that go missing
are vulnerable.
And we need to be looking at them
the way Alan Harvey did.
as potential victims.
Otherwise. we'll...
we'll be too late again.
You start on Monday.
Sir?
The strategic outcome of this
case is your permanent secondment
to Missing Persons.
looking for serial killers.
You're telling me I'm leaving?
I'm telling you...
you're finished.
DS Stone.
Now...
get out.
Chasing Shadows
Part 1 of 4
Subtitles by Deluxe
Sync: Marocas62
Leanne?
Morning. Ruth.
Coffee's up.
Morning. Sal.
Can you ask Eric
to resend that study
on the elderly?
I thought it was about pensions
and deleted it.
Sure. will do.
Hi. I'm Ruth Hattersley.
one of the senior analysts here.
I believe we're going
to be working together.
That's me. over there.
You are DS Stone...
Is it all right if I call you Sean?
You're booked in
for an induction at... ten.
I'll take you to meet
everybody first.
We're really excited
about you being here.
It's long overdue.
Obviously we advise the police
all the time.
but we never get to do
any field work.
-Do you have a husband?
-No.
No. I...
I don't.
I do have a son...
..who is ridiculously excited
about the fact
that I'm going to be working
with someone
who is as fascinated
by serial killers as he is.
Multiple murderer.
And I'm not fascinated.
But you are looking
into those missing persons
most at risk of becoming victims
of serial killers?
Multiple murderer.
I'm so sorry. What's the difference?
Serial killers live in Hollywood.
Multiple murderer helps keep them
where they belong.
-Which is where?
-Right next door.
They're not fascinating.
They're not evil geniuses.
most are merely opportunist.
So...
where do we start?
Well. I've looked at every low
and medium risk missing person
reported in the region
over the past three months.
I've focused on the
five groups most often
targeted by UK multiple murderers.
-Which are?
-Ask your son.
it sounds like he would know.
We're left with those.
We need to focus on her.
Taylor Davis. aged 16.
Why isn't she high priority?
Because she's run away
three times in the last year.
But she always returns
between hours 24 and 30.
We're now in hour 60.
No sightings.
no phone.
no social media activity.
-How long have you been here?
-We're creatures of habit.
That's what creates patterns.
Taylor broke hers. Do you have a car?
I'm going to see Taylor's
investigating officer.
What the hell...?
-Why didn't we travel together?
-I think while I drive.
What's a medium risk runaway
got to do with me?
-Because she's high risk.
-Not according to this.
That's why I'm here. You have to
prioritise Taylor Davis immediately.
Is that before or after I look
for whoever slashed a boy's throat
last night for his phone?
Or for the man sexually assaulting
women in the toilets of the local A&E?
-Is he dead?
-Who?
The boy.
-No. but...
-Before. then.
-Where' she going? Where you going?
-To see Taylor's mother.
No. you are not.
You are not!
If anyone's going to speak to her.
it's going to be me.
-Sir. can l have aword?
-Not now. Raymond.
I'm sorry about this.
having to drive me.
There's no point
in us taking three cars.
Do you know him?
DS Stone?
By reputation only.
He seems to have decided not
to like me.
How long have you two
been working together?
-Two hours.
-Sorry.
I know. it should take slightly
longer.
-It's not you.
-You think?
I know.
DS Stone marches to the beat
of his own drum.
I'm not entirely sure
if it's medical
but it's definitely not personal.
I thought
this was an opportunity.
Oh. this is an opportunity.
It's an opportunity
for Homicide Command
to dump what they see
as a liability onto Missing Persons.
No offence.
You know.
finding the missing.
telling their
families they're safe.
that's why I do this job.
I thought this was going to be a chance
to find the ones who aren't safe.
Well. look on the bright side.
-What's that?
-You got to ride with me.
I'll lead. OK?
Hi. Miss Davis.
I'm DI Prior.
I'm afraid there's no news
about Taylor.
I'm Ruth from Missing Persons. He's
not keeping anything from you.
Come in.
Does Taylor
have a college bag?
This is it. She took it with her
and some clothes and stuff
the other times she went. but PC
Stanley's already been through it.
He said detectives
only come if it's suspicious.
Yeah. I just need to make
sure nothing was missed. that's all.
So Taylor was last seen by you.
Mr. Legg.
wearing the jeans.
trainers and the red jacket.
-Yeah.
-Tay went to college as usual.
Did all her classes.
But she never came back.
13 to 17 year olds go missing
more than anyone else.
Most don't go far
and come back quickly.
But she hasn't.
And she never missed
college the other times.
Do we know where Taylor went
on those other occasions?
Look. it's not always been easy
between me and Taylor.
When she came back. I thought...
we thought. it was best left...
-I did.
-You've phoned all her friends?
Those we know of.
We gave PC Stanley a list.
Is there a boyfriend?
-Where's her phone?
-She hasn't got one.
She lost it sometime last week.
I can't remember when exactly.
I know she was unhappy about it.
She lived on that thing.
Has she got bad breath?
-What the hell was that. DS Stone?
-What?
Have you any idea
how they're feeling?
-No.
-So you'll prioritise Taylor?
-On what grounds?
-That she's at least as likely
to have been abducted
as she is to have run away.
Jumpin.
Sean! I am not going to phone you
again to find out where you are.
You have to tell me
what you're doing.
I'm waiting for someone from
Taylor's class
to take me to her tutor room.
I. sort of.
meant before you actually do it.
So is this where we're interviewing
them?
Who?
Taylor's friends.
That's why we're...
Why are we here. Sean?
Because mobile phones
continue to emit a signal
even after they've been switched off
or taken to pieces.
I ran a trace.
Taylor's phone is somewhere
in this building.
Are you police?
-Yes. who are you?
-Sophie. Sophie Scarrow.
-Ruth Hattersley.
-Hi.
So you know Taylor Davis?
Yeah. we have a few classes
together. that's about it.
Did she ever talk to you about
any problems she might be having?
We don't really talk about anything.
-You do know she's missing?
-Yeah.
Any idea where she might go?
I said. we don't really talk.
-Who are her friends?
-To be honest. she don't really have any.
You got visitors. sir.
Are you here about Taylor?
Any news?
Do the students have their own desks
or lockers.
places they can store things?
-No. Why?
-We need to find Taylor's phone.
-I've got it.
-Have you?
She's been warned not to use it
during lessons over and over again
but she kept on doing it.
-so I took it from her.
-When?
Last Thursday.
I told her on Friday
she could have it back
after the weekend.
but...
-obviously with everything that's been going on...
-Been in the drawer the whole time?
I couldn't have known
what she was planning.
-And you haven't tampered with it?
-Of course not.
It's locked.
We need her code.
Have you tried her birthday?
I alternate between
my son's birthday
and the day
I got my decree nisi.
-What codes do you use?
-Why?
The whole point of a code
is it's meant to be secret.
-Right.
-If I told you. I'd have to change it.
-What would be the point of that?
-Yep. yep. OK. forgetit.
-What?
-Van Gogh.
-Date of birth?
-No...
Death.
Sean. this is Angela Bale.
She's Director of the
Missing Persons... Bureau.
Your new boss.
So that's DS Stone. who didn't
come to meet me this morning.
I think so.
He hasn't actually
introduced himself to me yet
or shared anything other than the
fact that he prefers to drive alone.
I've yet to meet the person
that you can't connect with.
Well. you would have done...
if he hadn't ignored you.
Taylor spent a lot of time
on one website.
IMC.
"It's my choice".
It's a suicide website
used to talk about how to do it.
Not very good advice.
Otherwise there wouldn't
be a website. they'd all be dead.
Join... as a 16-year-old girl.
Since when did suicide
become a club to join?
Maybe it's not a suicide website
at all.
Maybe it's actually
a place for isolated kids
to contact each other
and that actually prevents them...
..from killing themselves
-Hello. can I help you?
-Who are you?
Kay... Amos?
Mr. Prior sent me.
He said you're looking into
suspicious missing persons.
-Yes. we are.
-But he knows
we're busy at the moment.
-If you could leave your contact details...
-There. that's Chloe.
That's my daughter.
Why have you crossed her out?
-That doesn't mean anything.
-Yes. it does.
Every week for months
I've been going to that station
and every week they mug me off!
Because she's 20
and an adult
with a history of drug
abuse and absconding.
That is Chloe. isn't it?
That's your excuse
for doing nothing?
No. That's why the police
haven't prioritised her.
Plus the fact you told them
she said she wasn't coming back.
-Yeah. but she didn't mean it.
-Why did she say it then?
Because people do when they row.
She always says it.
-Maybe this time is different.
-That's what I'm saying!
Someone's took her.
I know they did.
I've got no evidence.
but I know...
I know something's wrong.
Kay. the reality is that
most of the people on that wall.
they'll turn up alive and well.
Chloe always phones me.
even if it's only to shout at me.
Someone's took her
and even if she...
I just want her back with me.
I can't get on...
not until I know everything. I...
It's not even an up-to-date picture.
I'm so sorry.
-if you could just leave your de...
-Don't bother!
It is a suicide site.
I need more time to decipher
her usernames but...
at least one of the kids on here
has killed himself recently.
He was found six weeks ago.
disused printworks.
Kieran Gandley. aged 17.
He joined IMC three months
before Taylor.
I'm home!
-They didn't have any shallots...
-Mum!
Mum. what happened?
..so I got you some onions instead.
-Well?
-Hello. darling.
-How was school?
-Mum!
Don't try and distract me.
Did you or did you not
meet the serial killer?
Multiple murderer.
Well. technically. multiple murderer
is an umbrella term
encompassing spree killers.
serial killers and mass murderers.
-So. is that a yes?
-Let her get in the door. Bryan!
-Everything all right?
-Mum!
Don't pester!
But. look. I can help!
Come on. ask me anything.
OK.
How did your maths test go?
-You did do the maths test?
-Yes. I did the maths test.
All right.
I was told to ask you...
What are the five groups
most often targeted
by UK serial killers?
Prostitutes. gay men. the elderly.
kids and runaways.
That's in no particular order.
Did you want them
in any particular order?
Serial killers are not fascinating.
Bryan.
They're not evil geniuses.
most are merely opportunist.
Go on. do your homework.
More importantly.
what's DS Stone like?
Probably as close
as I'll ever get to an actual psycho.
-Who is?
-No one!
It's ironic.
Apparently. he's known
for making connections but...
-Handsome?
-Mum. I am so not interested.
I wasn't asking for you.
Is he married?
Well. if anyone did accidentally
marry him.
it wouldn't have lasted long.
Well. you're the expert. sweetheart.
-Yeah. you phoned the office?
-Yes.
Are you here about that lad?
The boy they say killed himself?
Kieran Gandley?
-That's right.
-Yeah. I remember him.
Yeah. it was me who found him.
Come on. I'll show you.
Yeah. I told him...
I told the boss.
it's too easy to get in.
And I'm not here all the while. the
amount of young kids I've chased off.
I mean. I said.
"You need to sort it
before something bad happens."
Yeah. I don't know why you're back.
but...
but I can show you the emails
that I've sent.
They're all dated.
Think they've offered me
any emotional support?
No.
Just this way.
Yeah. he was in one of these.
I'm not sure which one.
Yeah.
This is it.
Yep. there.
He was on the floor with a rope
around his neck.
You said.
"the boy they say killed himself".
You doubt it was suicide?
Who cares what I think.
I mean.
kids got in all the while.
-How?
-Just climbed the fence.
That razor wire wasn't up then.
Who knows what they were doing
up here.
I warned the boss.
I can prove I did.
Well...
Tell me all about it.
Kieran will have known
from the website
that hanging is the more painful way
to die.
but in the end. suicidal
and homicidal ligature strangulation
look notoriously alike.
-You didn't mean that. did you?
-No.
What is she like.
your new colleague?
40s. five foot eight.
she has a Rolodex.
Yeah. but what was she like. Sean?
Like?
Did you ask lots of questions.
as we said?
Straightaway.
"Have you got a husband?"
Well. that was right. wasn't it?
Do you remember.
I told you to be careful?
She maybe feel awkward.
She might think you're interested.
-Romantically.
-Why?
Never mind.
Anything else?
-She has a son.
-Very-good. Name?
-She didn't say.
-Did you ask?
No.
Your dinner is in the fridge.
And I didn't have time to iron
today.
so I'll bring it on Thursday.
OK?
Wallet?
Bye-bye.
Bye.
"Last seen near Greenwich"
"Walks with assistance"
"MS sufferer"
Who's Taylor?
If you're actually practising
creeping up on people.
I'm going to start worrying.
-What are you doing?
-Nothing.
And why are you calling yourself
Emma?
Listen. when you go online
and read about murder and stuff.
you don't ever...
look at dark stuff. do you?
Define dark. Mum.
Some people go on the web because it
seems like everything is there.
all the answers are
at your fingertips.
Mum. are you going to rant on about
how you and Dad had to split up
-because it was the only option again?
-No!
Why bring him up?
-Why are you on a suicide forum?
-You've seen IMC before?
Look. I look at all types of stuff
on the internet.
What do you want me to say?
That you are not
and never will be one of those kids
whose mothers find out too late
how lost you were.
Mum. I promise...
you will always
know how lost I am.
Five minutes.
-Hello. Donna.
-Hi.
I thought working might help.
I was wondering...
Was there anything to suggest
that Taylor
might have been feeling low
recently?
-Depressed.
-She had her moods.
she's a teenager.
But nothing special. Why?
But there have been problems
in the past. with Graham. yes?
It took Tay a bit of time
to accept things.
when we got together.
We'd been on our own
for so long after her dad died.
but things were settling down.
We were all getting along.
I thought we were.
Graham loves her to bits.
you know.
What is it that
you don't want to tell me?
There are some kids.
teenagers.
who are spending time
on suicide websites...
Suicide?
It doesn't necessarily mean
that Taylor has hurt herself...
There's no way Taylor would ever...
No way.
A girl in her class at college
told us that Taylor has no friends.
Who said that?
-Sophie Scarrow?
-Sophie?
-Yeah.
-She's been Taylor's best friend
since primary school.
They're like sisters.
-You're sure about that?
-Absolutely.
I went to see Donna. to tell her
about the suicide website.
Forget suicide.
Taylor showed no sign of self-harm
or any other suicidal behaviour.
Her GP says the same.
Sophie Scarrow lied.
Taylor is her best friend.
And why should we forget suicide?
I went to the printworks
where Kieran Gandley was found.
The only way in was over a ten-foot
fence and he was suffering from MS.
-I had to do some research...
-Why didn't you tell me any of this?
-Why. do you know about MS?
-No!
I don't think that boy
could have got inside
without someone pulling him
over that fence.
Why didn't you share with me
what you're doing?
-What for?
-Because we work together.
That's what people who
work together do. Sean.
They communicate.
Let's talk about it later.
-Sean.
-This isn't later. this is still now.
At least tell me where we're going
so I don't have to
keep following you.
-To see Sophie. You said she lied.
-To the college.
I'm here to help you.
Yes. The other day
when I asked you about your husband.
I don't find you attractive.
Why did you tell us
you and Taylor aren't friends?
Cos we're not.
-Well. not any more anyway.
-You were friends. weren't you?
-So you lied.
-We haven't spoken in ages.
Hello. Sophie. We wanted to ask you
if you knew anything
about a suicide website.
You don't think Taylor's committed
suicide. do you?
I mean. she's...
she's just gone off. hasn't she?
Why did you two stop talking?
Why?
There was a boy.
So why didn't you tell us
that before?
-Who is he?
-No one.
Hangs round out the front.
Bit older.
Selling cannabis to teenage girls.
including Taylor.
And she used mouthwash to disguise
the smell. didn't she?
What's his name?
Sophie. we think Taylor
might be in very real danger.
What's his name?
-Aaron Scobie.
-Who?
Aaron Scobie!
-Prior.
-Carl. we've got a name.
It's an older boy
Taylor had a crush on.
He's called Aaron Scobie.
Yeah. I know him.
I know where he'll be. Thanks.
Yes. bruv!
Yes.
Here we go. here we go. here we go!
You going down town later?
You're mates of Aaron Scobie's.
aren't you?
Gotcha.
Run!
Police!
-Get off!
-Hey.hey!
-I haven't got anything!
-I'm not interested.
What ever he's said.
he's lying!
What did he say?
We've known each other long enough
to know I ask the questions.
Where's Aaron Scobie?
-With you.
-What?
He got picked up outside his flat
half an hour ago.
By who?
He said he was a detective.
but he was well weird.
Who was he. then?
Do you know Taylor Davis?
I know of her.
I mean.
I've seen her...at the college.
-What's that?
-What?
Around your neck.
-What do you think it is?
-Show me.
Why have you got Taylor Davis's ring?
-I found it.
-No. you didn't.
Where did you get it from?
All right. she was messing about with it
when we were talking and left it behind.
-You do know her?
-I forgot to give it back.
Stop lying!
Taylor has been missing now
for four days.
Statistically.
every hour that passes
makes it less likely she will return.
-Taylor's missing?
-Yes! What do you know about that?
-l hardly knew her!
-We know Taylor was attracted to you.
-Who told you that?
-Where is she. Aaron?
I don't know. I mean. why would I?
You should be speaking to her mates.
people she talks to.
-Like who?
-I don't know!
-She's got new friends. hasn't she?
-Names.
Leanne. isn't it.
she's always on about?
-Well. who's she?
-A word. DS Stone.
In what world do you think it's OK
to arrest and interview a prisoner
with a case with my name on it.
and not tell me?
-He's not under arrest.
-Sean...
Was there a Leanne in the list
of friends Taylor's mother supplied?
I'm a DI. DS Stone.
Do not ignore me.
I'm trying to stop you ignoring
a missing teenager
-before we find her body.
-We need evidence.
Do you have any
evidence against him?
He has Taylor Davis's ring.
-Does he have an explanation?
-Yes. but l don't believe him.
Get out of my sight.
Why are you suddenly
wearing lipstick?
Chief Super...
Wait one second.
Chief Superintendant Drayton.
please.
DI Prior.
OK. well. tell him to call me when
he gets in. thank you.
Ruth. I'm really sorry about that.
You know. I'm happy to work with
you. more than happy. in fact.
But I...
I can't have that. OK?
Yeah.
Davis. can you escort
Miss Hattersley out. please?
Sean!
If this is going to work...
you have to show you're willing to
collaborate with the Bureau.
ie me...and with the police.
ie Carl.
-Who's Carl?
-DI Prior.
I don't think he likes me.
The only way we're going
to find Taylor Davis
is by making real connections. Sean.
by building relationships.
We'll find her by going back
to the suicide website
and looking for Taylor's friend.
Leanne.
Has it never occurred
to you that sometimes...
other people might have something
valuable to offer?
No.
Then I don't think I can help you
after all.
I don't need your help.
By the way. multiple murderer
is actually an umbrella term
encompassing mass murderers.
spree killers and serial killers.
Bryan!
Yeah?
You've been sending emails...
as me.
Not as you.
As Emma.
You left yourself logged in and I make
a much better teenage girl than you.
You...
you talked about Taylor.
Yeah. but nothing you hadn't said
already.
only that she showed you the site
and that you missed her and...
This is an ongoing police
investigation. Bryan.
I'm...
I'm sorry.
It's Leanne again.
LEANNE: U gon quiet. u OK?
EMMA: Hi
LEANNE: Want 2 Meet or No?
EMMA: Where?
"Deceased. Found dead due to
strangulation. Suspected suicide."
I've tried both your phones.
You never answer.
The profile I created
on the suicide website
has been getting messages
from a friend of Taylor's.
We're going to meet now.
At Everfields.
It's Leanne.
Data isn't everything. Sean.
-This is Ruth. leave a message.
-I've found another one.
Lucas Storey. aged 16. released
from a young offenders' institute
four months ago and found dead
two months later
in a derelict office block
having strangled himself.
Lucas. Kieran Gandley and Taylor
Davis have one friend in common.
who had contact with all of them
the day before they went missing.
Leanne. It's a pattern.
Where are you?
You have one new message.
I've tried both your phones.
You never answer.
The profile I created
on the suicide website
has been getting messages
from a friend of Taylor's.
We're going to meet now.
At Everfields.
It's Leanne.
This is Ruth.
leave a message.
Hello?
Leanne?
-Hey! Hold up!
-That's not Taylor!
That's not Taylor.
where is she then?
Liar.
-They want me out.
-They need you.
-And where were you at noon today?
-At work until one.
Driving.
I have to cover about 20 sites.
Tay is loved so don't hurt her.
Please don't hurt her.
Taylor.
Subtitles by Deluxe
Sync: Marocas62